My name is Heather Dickson.
I'm the principal of Marshview
Middle School.
And today I wanted to talk
about our school improvement goal
with numeracy
and a shared vision for our school.
We wanted to tackle attitudes,
in our students,
towards numeracy, and we wanted to build
grit and resilience.
When it came to looking at problems
where they didn't know the easy answer.
We allocated our advisory period was,
which is an extra 25 minutes a day
towards numeracy practice.
Our entire school, spent that 25 minutes
engaged in mathematics
activities and games.
We wanted to foster a love of math.
And this really started with the adults
in the building.
So often you hear, oh, I'm
not a math person.
And so it was changing the attitudes
from the top down
to say, well, mathematicians,
we use math every day.
And it was to foster a sense of love,
of numbers within our student body.
So during those advisory periods, they
would work on our collective problems.
We used estimation 180 a lot,
but it was about finding the joy
in working with math, seeing problems
all the way through to the end
when things got challenging,
if things had a different way
of tackling the question.
We really wanted to celebrate
that with our students.
The culmination activity and
a long standing activity at Mars View
Middle School is our math Olympics.
Students are grouped in, groups of four.
There's a grade five, six, a seven
and an eight student on our teams.
And they visit different stations, for
about five minutes,
and they tackle grade level math problems.
And so if you're a grade eight student,
you finish your grade eight question.
But then you're able to help the others
on your team, try to solve their problems
because the activities
are only five minutes.
The students know, okay, I'll buckle down.
I'll really try on this.
And if it's really frustrating
or it's stopping me,
we know that we're moving on
in five minutes.
We found that our attendance increases
that day.
The amount of office referrals is none,
and it is a really exciting way
to engage with math all afternoon.
So our efforts paid off.
And one of the things that we found
was the overall general attitude
towards math to,
you know, engaging with numbers
to seeing through, problems
until the very end.
The attitude towards math increased.
The students had fun.
They were able to see their French
teacher become their math
teacher, their Ela
teacher become their math teacher.
And, really fostered
a sense of a love for numbers.
We also engaged our families
where we sent home weekly
probability activities.
They went out on the Friday before.
They had to be handed in the Wednesday
for every family that created one,
or that finished
one of the math activities,
they were put into a draw
that won a family game night.
And so there was drinks, popcorn,
and then some sort of a math game,
whether that was a crib board and cards,
or various
math, math games that we found on Amazon.
But it got the sense of community and
our families talking about math as well.